This write up covers fixing of a previously identified issue found on the Juice shop. The write up covers what was fixed and challenges/improvements made along the way

Issue previously Identified:
Hard-coded JWT value
Category: CWE-798 
OWASP: A04:2025 - Cryptographic Failure and A07:2025 - Authentication Failures
Risk: Critical as token is easily found and publicly exposed. This could then be used to forge valid authentication tokens as any user without needing their credentials, even admin users. 
Location: lib/insecurity.ts 

SAST report identified a potential hard-coded JWT key in the lib/insecurity.ts file. I then traced this location and verified that there is a hardcoded RSA private key used to sign JWTs. 
This is very dangerous as the token could be used by attackers to forge valid authentication tokens without needing admin access. 

FIX:
move the key to an environment variable or secrets manager
rotate the key periodically in case it gets exposed (the existing key should be treated as compromised and existing users/sessions should be checked for authenticity of valid users/actions)
Private keys should never be committed to version control or shared insecurely

Iteration 1 of fix:
Removed the hard-coded JWT token and created a new (secure) JWT token in an .env file (which was also added to .gitignored) and in CI in the GitHub Actions repository secret.
A new key was generated with RSA-2048 scheme via openssl genrsa/openssl rsa -pubout.

Issue with this solution:
the fix relied on an error message and an empty string if the env variable wasn't called successfully however, Semgrep's scan still flagged this rule for JWT-hardcoded. This was a correct hit from the
rule as an empty hard-coded string is still an exploitable hard-coded string. This then led me to Fix Iteration 2.

Iteration 2 of fix:
Quick app fail if JWT_Private_Key isn't set instead of failing later and revealing information to users. This was a success as the report no longer flagged the vulnerability upon next run. 

During the course of this fix another issue was identified on the pipeline.

Pipeline change:
The Zap scan job originally pulled the public bkimminich/juice-shop docker image and not the local one I was working on. This means that the DAST was never checking the changes I was making.
I then changed this to check out the repo,install dependencies and to run the app via npm start. This ensures the zap scan checks the right code. 

Conclusion:
JWT-hardcoded vulnerability was fixed after 2 iterations due to fallback on an empty string in the first iteration. A pipeline fix was required for one of the scans to ensure that they are scanning
the correct codebase thus preventing false confidence. 
The security scans were run again and both reports were verified to have no new issues resulting from this fix and confirming that the JWT issue has been resolved. 

Future improvements:
key rotation on a schedule is a recommended for a future improvement but has not been included within this fix. 